README.adoc, before:

= Etaoin
:toclevels: 4
:project-src-coords: clj-commons/etaoin
:project-mvn-coords: etaoin/etaoin
:url-webdriver: https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver/
:url-wiki: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Etaoin_shrdlu#Literature
:url-doc: https://cljdoc.org/d/{project-mvn-coords}
:url-slack: https://clojurians.slack.com/messages/C7KDM0EKW/

// Badges
link:{url-doc}[image:https://cljdoc.org/badge/{project-mvn-coords}[cljdoc]]
https://github.com/{project-src-coords}/actions/workflows/test.yml[image:https://github.com/{project-src-coords}/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg[GitHub Actions Tests]]
https://clojars.org/{project-mvn-coords}[image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/{project-mvn-coords}.svg[Clojars project]]
https://babashka.org[image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/babashka/babashka/master/logo/badge.svg[bb compatible]]
https://clojurians.slack.com/archives/C7KDM0EKW[image:https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-join_chat-brightgreen.svg[Join chat]]

A pure Clojure implementation of the link:{url-webdriver}[Webdriver] protocol named after link:{url-wiki}[Etaoin Shrdlu] -- a typing machine that became alive after a mysterious note was produced on it.

Use the Etaoin library to automate a browser, test your frontend behaviour, simulate human actions or whatever you want.

== Benefits

* Selenium-free: no long dependencies, no tons of downloaded jars, etc.
* Lightweight, fast.
Simple, easy to understand.
* Compact: just one main module with a couple of helpers.
* Declarative: the code is just a list of actions.

== Capabilities

* Currently supports Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Edge.
* May either connect to a remote driver or run it on your local machine.
* Run your unit tests directly from Emacs pressing `C-t t` as usual.
* Can imitate human-like behaviour (delays, typos, etc).

== Documentation

API docs and articles are best viewed on link:{url-doc}[cljdoc]:

* link:doc/01-user-guide.adoc[User Guide]
* link:doc/02-developer-guide.adoc[Developer Guide]

See also:

:ui-test: http://grishaev.me/en/ui-test
:stream: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLL_5rETLWY

* link:{url-slack}[Slack channel]
* link:{ui-test}[Thoughts on UI tests]
Ivan's blog-post about pitfalls that can occur when testing UI.
* link:{stream}[Live-coding session] where Ivan works through some Etaoin issues.

== Who uses Etaoin?

* https://www.exoscale.com/[Exoscale]
* https://www.flyerbee.com/[Flyerbee]
* https://www.roomkey.com/[Roomkey]
* http://www.barrick.com/[Barrick Gold]
* http://drevidence.com/[Doctor Evidence]
* https://kevel.com/[Kevel (formerly Adzerk)]
* https://www.rate.com/[Guaranteed Rate]

You are welcome to submit your company to this list.

== People

=== Contributors

* https://github.com/Uunnamed[Alexey Shipilov]
* https://github.com/AdamFrey[Adam Frey]
* https://github.com/jwkoelewijn[JW Koelewijn]
* https://github.com/nenadalm[Miloslav Nenadál]
* https://github.com/atsman[Aleh Atsman]
* https://github.com/marco-m[Marco Molteni]
* https://github.com/nebesnytihohod[Maxim Stasenkov]

=== Current Maintainers

* https://github.com/lread[Lee Read]
* https://github.com/borkdude[Michiel Borkent]

=== Founder

* https://github.com/igrishaev[Ivan Grishaev]

The project is open for your improvements and ideas.
If any of unit tests fail on your machine please submit an issue giving your OS version, browser and console output.

== License

Copyright © 2017&mdash;2020 Ivan Grishaev.

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Flesh out developer guide and add some bb tasks
New bb tasks:
- dev - start a Clojure nREPL server
- bb-dev - start a Babashka nREPL server
- lint - lint sources with clj-kondo
- drivers - list or kill WebDriver processes, replaces old `make kill`
- cljdoc-preview - preview what our docs will look like on cljdoc
- outdated - list outdated deps

Enough build.clj support added to support cljdoc-preview's need to
install to local maven repo. Full release workflow coming soon.

Also:
- described library versioning scheme in README

README.adoc, after:

= Etaoin
:toclevels: 4
:project-src-coords: clj-commons/etaoin
:project-mvn-coords: etaoin/etaoin
:url-webdriver: https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver/
:url-wiki: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Etaoin_shrdlu#Literature
:url-doc: https://cljdoc.org/d/{project-mvn-coords}
:url-slack: https://clojurians.slack.com/messages/C7KDM0EKW/

// Badges
link:{url-doc}[image:https://cljdoc.org/badge/{project-mvn-coords}[cljdoc]]
https://github.com/{project-src-coords}/actions/workflows/test.yml[image:https://github.com/{project-src-coords}/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg[GitHub Actions Tests]]
https://clojars.org/{project-mvn-coords}[image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/{project-mvn-coords}.svg[Clojars project]]
https://babashka.org[image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/babashka/babashka/master/logo/badge.svg[bb compatible]]
https://clojurians.slack.com/archives/C7KDM0EKW[image:https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-join_chat-brightgreen.svg[Join chat]]

A pure Clojure implementation of the link:{url-webdriver}[Webdriver] protocol named after link:{url-wiki}[Etaoin Shrdlu] -- a typing machine that came to life after a mysterious note was produced on it.

Use the Etaoin library to automate a browser, test your frontend behaviour, simulate human actions or whatever you want.

== Benefits

* Selenium-free: no long dependencies, no tons of downloaded jars, etc.
* Lightweight, fast.
Simple, easy to understand.
* Compact: just one main module with a couple of helpers.
* Declarative: the code is just a list of actions.

== Capabilities

* Currently supports Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Edge.
* May either connect to a remote driver or run it on your local machine.
* Run your unit tests directly from Emacs pressing `C-t t` as usual.
* Can imitate human-like behaviour (delays, typos, etc).

== Documentation

API docs and articles are best viewed on link:{url-doc}[cljdoc]:

* link:doc/01-user-guide.adoc[User Guide]
* link:doc/02-developer-guide.adoc[Developer Guide]

See also:

:ui-test: http://grishaev.me/en/ui-test
:stream: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLL_5rETLWY

* link:{url-slack}[Slack channel]
* link:{ui-test}[Thoughts on UI tests]
Ivan's blog-post about pitfalls that can occur when testing UI.
* link:{stream}[Live-coding session] where Ivan works through some Etaoin issues.

== Who uses Etaoin?

* https://www.exoscale.com/[Exoscale]
* https://www.flyerbee.com/[Flyerbee]
* https://www.roomkey.com/[Roomkey]
* http://www.barrick.com/[Barrick Gold]
* http://drevidence.com/[Doctor Evidence]
* https://kevel.com/[Kevel (formerly Adzerk)]
* https://www.rate.com/[Guaranteed Rate]

You are welcome to submit your company to this list.

== Versioning

Eatoin uses: `major`.`minor`.`patch`-`test-qualifier`

* `major` increments when a non alpha release API has been broken - something, as a rule, we'd like to avoid.
* `minor` increments to convey significant new features have been added.
* `patch` indicates bug fixes or minor changes - it is the total number of releases to date.
* `test-qualifier` is absent for stable releases.
Can be `alpha`, `beta`, `rc1`, etc.

== People

=== Contributors

* https://github.com/Uunnamed[Alexey Shipilov]
* https://github.com/AdamFrey[Adam Frey]
* https://github.com/jwkoelewijn[JW Koelewijn]
* https://github.com/nenadalm[Miloslav Nenadál]
* https://github.com/atsman[Aleh Atsman]
* https://github.com/marco-m[Marco Molteni]
* https://github.com/nebesnytihohod[Maxim Stasenkov]

=== Current Maintainers

* https://github.com/lread[Lee Read]
* https://github.com/borkdude[Michiel Borkent]

=== Founder

* https://github.com/igrishaev[Ivan Grishaev]

The project is open for your improvements and ideas.
If any of unit tests fail on your machine please submit an issue giving your OS version, browser and console output.

== License

Copyright © 2017&mdash;2020 Ivan Grishaev.

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at your option) any later version.
