doc/02-developer-guide.adoc, before:

= Developer Guide
:toclevels: 5
:toc:

== Contributing

We very much appreciate contributions from the community.

=== Issue First Please

If you have an idea or a fix, please do raise a GitHub issue before investing in any coding effort. That way we can discuss first.
Writing code is the easy part, maintaining it forever is the hard part.

That said, if you notice a simple typo, a PR without an issue is fine.

=== Submitting a Pull Request

The entire <<running-tests,test suite>> can take several minutes to run.
Depending on your change, you might choose to sanity test with a subset of tests or browsers.

When you submit a PR, GitHub Actions will kick in and test across all supported browsers, OSes, Babashka and Clojure.
There's no shame in it finding a problem you didn't anticipate.
Given the nature of WebDrivers and browsers, it is not entirely unusual for a job or two to fail.
You can request GitHub Actions to rerun the failed jobs.
If they fail a second time you might have an issue to solve.

== Environmental Overview

=== Supported Environments

Etaoin is tested on macOS, Ubuntu and Windows via GitHub Actions on each commit to the master branch.
All tests are run under Clojure and Babashka.
We test against against Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Safari xref:01-user-guide.adoc#supported-os-browser[depending on the OS].

=== Developer Prerequisites

* Java Development Kit 1.8 or above
* Current version of Clojure cli for `clojure` command
** Note: the Etaoin library itself supports Clojure v1.9 and above
* Current vesion of Babashka
* Browsers and WebDrivers, see xref:01-user-guide.adoc#install-webdrivers[installation tips instructions in user guide]
** We currently test against is installed by GitHub Actions on their virtual environments.
They seem to keep browsers and drivers up to date. If we find we need to, we'll invest in tweaking these defaults, but we don't see a need as of this writing.
* ImageMagick - used by tests to verify that screenshots produce valid PNG files

It is also useful to have access to the variety of OSes that Etaoin supports to diagnose and fix any OS-specific issues that may arise.

=== Babashka Compatibility

Etaoin is babashka compatible.

Babashka supports everything that Etaoin needs, but when making changes, be aware that your code must also work under Babashka. For example, to make Etaoin Babashka compatible we made the following changes:

1. Turf unused reference to `java.lang.IllegalThreadStateException`
2. Replace use of `org.clojure/data.codec` with JDK's `Base64`
3. Replace use of `ImageIO` in tests with a callout to ImageMagick instead.
4. Replace some JDK file related class references with `babashka/fs` abstractions
5. Use `http-client-lite` in place of `http-client` when running under Babashka
6. Run existing tests with cognitect test runner by including `babashka/tools.namespace`

Nothing earth shattering there, but gives you and idea.

== Docs

All documentation is written in AsciiDoc.
@lread likes to follow https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line[AsciiDoc best practice of one sentence per line] but won't be entirely pedantic about that.

We host our docs on cljdoc and have support for <<cljdoc-preview,previewing>>

== Babashka Tasks

We use Babashka tasks, to see all available tasks run:

[source,shell]
----
bb tasks
----

=== Launching a REPL

For a Clojure REPL
[source,shell]
----
bb dev
----

For a babashka REPL
[source,shell]
----
bb bb-dev
----

=== Checking Tools Versions

Used by GitHub Actions, but also an interesting way to check your prerequisites:

[source,shell]
----
bb tools-versions
----

[[running-tests]]
=== Runing tests

The `test` task provides a coarse grained facility to invoke tests.
It was written to satisfy the use case of running tests in parallel on GitHub Actions.


[source,shell]
----
bb test --help
----

We'll likely add finer grained test selection to satisfy developer needs.
For now, temporarily tweak `./script/test.clj` if you need to.

==== Testing within Docker

If you wish, you can build a local docker image for testing on Linux.
You may want to try this because:

* you are developing on macOS and want to run a sanity test on Linux
* or maybe you'd like to isolate a test run without windows popping up hither and thither (on docker we use a virtual display)

To build a local docker image with Chrome and Firefox support:
[source,shell]
----
bb docker-build
----

TIP: This will build a docker image with current releases of Chrome, Firefox and their respective WebDrivers.
Rerun the command as necessary.

You can use this image interactively:
[source,shell]
----
bb docker-run
bb test all
----

Or you can use it to run a single command:
[source,shell]
----
bb docker-run bb test all
----

NOTE: `docker-run` plunks you automatically into `/etaoin` which maps to the etaoin project root

There is nothing magic about the babashka docker tasks.
They are here for our convenience.
Feel free to run docker commands directly if that is more your thing.

=== WebDriver Processes

Sometimes WebDriver process might hang around longer than you'd like.

To list them:
[source,shell]
----
bb drivers
----

To terminate them:
[source,shell]
----
bb drivers kill
----

=== Linting

We use clj-kondo to lint Etaoin source code.

To lint Etaoin sources:
[source,shell]
----
bb lint
----

We like to keep our code free of lint warnings and fail CI if there are any lint issues.
This keeps our code tidy and also helps us to ensure our <<clj-kondo-export,clj-kondo export config>> is working as expected.

TIP: https://github.com/borkdude/clj-kondo/blob/master/doc/editor-integration.md[Integrate clj-kondo into your editor] to catch mistakes as you type them.

=== Outdated dependencies

To run check Etaoin dependencies:

[source,shell]
----
bb outdated
----

[[cljdoc-preview]]
=== Cljdoc Preview

Before a release, it can be comforting to preview what docs will look like on https://cljdoc.org/[cljdoc].

[NOTE]
====
This task should be considered experimental, I have only tested running on macOS, but am fairly confident it will work on Linux.
Not sure about Windows at this time.
====

[TIP]
====
You have to push your changes to GitHub to preview them. This allows for a full preview that includes any links (source, images, etc) to GitHub.
This works fine from branches and forks.
====

Run `bb cljdoc-preview --help` for help.

* `bb cljdoc-preview start` downloads (if necessary) and starts the cljdoc docker image
* `bb cljdoc-preview ingest` installs etaoin to your local maven repo and imports it into locally running cljdoc
* `bb cljdoc-preview view` opens a view to your imported docs in your default web browser
* `bb cljdoc-preview stop` stops the docker image

== Other Notes

=== Logging

When running tests under the JVM, info level logging is configured via `env/test/resources/logback.xml`. This is automatically selected via the `:test` alias. You can prefix the `:debug` alias for debug level logging. See `script/test.clj` and tweak if necessary.

For Babashka, logging levels are controlled via the built-in timbre library.
See `script/bb_test_runner.clj` and tweak if necessary.

Sometimes tools like WireShark can also be helpful.
@lread personally used a combination of RawCap and WireShark on Windows to successfully diagnose an issue.

[[clj-kondo-export]]
=== Clj-kondo Export Config

Users of Etaoin and clj-kondo benefit from our clj-kondo export configuration.
As is the convention, you'll find it under `./resources/clj-kondo.exports/`.
We keep any clj-kondo config containing our local linting preferences, and pertinent to only our internal code, in `.clj-kondo/config.edn`.

This configuration is included in the Etaoin release jar and available when folks reference Etaoin from their `deps.edn` form a `git` dependency.

[NOTE]
====
Etaoin contains a fair number of macros.
Clj-kondo can need special configuration (including hooks) to understand the effects of these macros.
So, when adding any new macros, think also about our Etaoin users and our clj-kondo export configuration.
====

Commit message:

User guide and usage related updates
New maintainer preference is to not use `:refer :all` in code and docs.
This is subjective, so apologies to those who prefer `:refer :all`.

This change should not affect behaviour of Etaoin.

I tried to be consistent in aliasing. For example `etaoin.api :as e`.
Also did a clojure-lsp clean-ns on each `ns`.

Deleted extra whitespace (newlines) when I noticed.

While sweeping the user guide:
- attempted to understand everything I read, and elaborated where I,
as a relative newcomer to Etaoin, was confused
- attempted a re-org to group related sections together
- reworded some sentences here and there
- add a section on creating the driver
- updated outdated text where I noticed it
- attempted to make most example code blocks something the user could
theoretically paste and run (and verified such myself)
- tweaked clj-kondo hooks for with-key-down and with-pointer-btn-down,
I discovered I hadn't quite got them correct enough.
At same time moved to registering lint findings instead of throwing.
- added in automated testing of many user guide code blocks via
test-doc-blocks via `bb test-doc`, added to CI

doc/02-developer-guide.adoc, after:

= Developer Guide
:toclevels: 5
:toc:

== Contributing

We very much appreciate contributions from the community.

=== Issue First Please

If you have an idea or a fix, please do raise a GitHub issue before investing in any coding effort. That way we can discuss first.
Writing code is the easy part, maintaining it forever is the hard part.

That said, if you notice a simple typo, a PR without an issue is fine.

=== Submitting a Pull Request

The entire <<running-tests,test suite>> can take several minutes to run.
Depending on your change, you might choose to sanity test with a subset of tests or browsers.

When you submit a PR, GitHub Actions will kick in and test across all supported browsers, OSes, Babashka and Clojure.
There's no shame in it finding a problem you didn't anticipate.
Given the nature of WebDrivers and browsers, it is not entirely unusual for a job or two to fail.
You can request GitHub Actions to rerun the failed jobs.
If they fail a second time you might have an issue to solve.

== Environmental Overview

=== Supported Environments

Etaoin is tested on macOS, Ubuntu and Windows via GitHub Actions on each commit to the master branch.
All tests are run under Clojure and Babashka.
We test against against Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Safari xref:01-user-guide.adoc#supported-os-browser[depending on the OS].

=== Developer Prerequisites

* Java Development Kit 1.8 or above
* Current version of Clojure cli for `clojure` command
** Note: the Etaoin library itself supports Clojure v1.9 and above
* Current vesion of Babashka
* Browsers and WebDrivers, see xref:01-user-guide.adoc#install-webdrivers[installation tips instructions in user guide]
** We currently test against is installed by GitHub Actions on their virtual environments.
They seem to keep browsers and drivers up to date. If we find we need to, we'll invest in tweaking these defaults, but we don't see a need as of this writing.
* ImageMagick - used by tests to verify that screenshots produce valid PNG files

It is also useful to have access to the variety of OSes that Etaoin supports to diagnose and fix any OS-specific issues that may arise.

=== Babashka Compatibility

Etaoin is babashka compatible.

Babashka supports everything that Etaoin needs, but when making changes, be aware that your code must also work under Babashka. For example, to make Etaoin Babashka compatible we made the following changes:

1. Turf unused reference to `java.lang.IllegalThreadStateException`
2. Replace use of `org.clojure/data.codec` with JDK's `Base64`
3. Replace use of `ImageIO` in tests with a callout to ImageMagick instead.
4. Replace some JDK file related class references with `babashka/fs` abstractions
5. Use `http-client-lite` in place of `http-client` when running under Babashka
6. Run existing tests with cognitect test runner by including `babashka/tools.namespace`

Nothing earth shattering there, but gives you and idea.

== Docs

All documentation is written in AsciiDoc.
@lread likes to follow https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line[AsciiDoc best practice of one sentence per line] but won't be entirely pedantic about that.

We host our docs on cljdoc and have support for <<cljdoc-preview,previewing>>




== Babashka Tasks

We use Babashka tasks, to see all available tasks run:

[source,shell]
----
bb tasks
----

=== Launching a REPL

For a Clojure REPL
[source,shell]
----
bb dev
----

For a babashka REPL
[source,shell]
----
bb bb-dev
----

=== Checking Tools Versions

Used by GitHub Actions, but also an interesting way to check your prerequisites:

[source,shell]
----
bb tools-versions
----

[[running-tests]]
=== Runing tests

The `test` task provides a coarse grained facility to invoke tests.
It was written to satisfy the use case of running tests in parallel on GitHub Actions.


[source,shell]
----
bb test --help
----

We'll likely add finer grained test selection to satisfy developer needs.
For now, temporarily tweak `./script/test.clj` if you need to.

==== Testing User Guide Code Blocks

There are many code examples in the user guide.
In an attempt to ensure they are in working order, we run a selection of them through https://github.com/lread/test-doc-blocks[test-doc-blocks].

[source,shell]
----
bb test-doc
----

If you are updating the user guide, it preferable if your code block can be run through test-doc-blocks.
But if this is impractal, you can also have test-doc-blocks skip a code block.

==== Testing within Docker

If you wish, you can build a local docker image for testing on Linux.
You may want to try this because:

* you are developing on macOS and want to run a sanity test on Linux
* or maybe you'd like to isolate a test run without windows popping up hither and thither (on docker we use a virtual display)

To build a local docker image with Chrome and Firefox support:
[source,shell]
----
bb docker-build
----

TIP: This will build a docker image with current releases of Chrome, Firefox and their respective WebDrivers.
Rerun the command as necessary.

You can use this image interactively:
[source,shell]
----
bb docker-run
bb test all
----

Or you can use it to run a single command:
[source,shell]
----
bb docker-run bb test all
----

NOTE: `docker-run` plunks you automatically into `/etaoin` which maps to the etaoin project root

There is nothing magic about the babashka docker tasks.
They are here for our convenience.
Feel free to run docker commands directly if that is more your thing.

=== WebDriver Processes

Sometimes WebDriver process might hang around longer than you'd like.

To list them:
[source,shell]
----
bb drivers
----

To terminate them:
[source,shell]
----
bb drivers kill
----

=== Linting

We use clj-kondo to lint Etaoin source code.

To lint Etaoin sources:
[source,shell]
----
bb lint
----

We like to keep our code free of lint warnings and fail CI if there are any lint issues.
This keeps our code tidy and also helps us to ensure our <<clj-kondo-export,clj-kondo export config>> is working as expected.

TIP: https://github.com/borkdude/clj-kondo/blob/master/doc/editor-integration.md[Integrate clj-kondo into your editor] to catch mistakes as you type them.

=== Outdated dependencies

To run check Etaoin dependencies:

[source,shell]
----
bb outdated
----

[[cljdoc-preview]]
=== Cljdoc Preview

Before a release, it can be comforting to preview what docs will look like on https://cljdoc.org/[cljdoc].

[NOTE]
====
This task should be considered experimental, I have only tested running on macOS, but am fairly confident it will work on Linux.
Not sure about Windows at this time.
====

[TIP]
====
You have to push your changes to GitHub to preview them. This allows for a full preview that includes any links (source, images, etc) to GitHub.
This works fine from branches and forks.
====

Run `bb cljdoc-preview --help` for help.

* `bb cljdoc-preview start` downloads (if necessary) and starts the cljdoc docker image
* `bb cljdoc-preview ingest` installs etaoin to your local maven repo and imports it into locally running cljdoc
* `bb cljdoc-preview view` opens a view to your imported docs in your default web browser
* `bb cljdoc-preview stop` stops the docker image

== Other Notes

=== Logging

When running tests under the JVM, info level logging is configured via `env/test/resources/logback.xml`. This is automatically selected via the `:test` alias. You can prefix the `:debug` alias for debug level logging. See `script/test.clj` and tweak if necessary.

For Babashka, logging levels are controlled via the built-in timbre library.
See `script/bb_test_runner.clj` and tweak if necessary.

Sometimes tools like WireShark can also be helpful.
@lread personally used a combination of RawCap and WireShark on Windows to successfully diagnose an issue.

[[clj-kondo-export]]
=== Clj-kondo Export Config

Users of Etaoin and clj-kondo benefit from our clj-kondo export configuration.
As is the convention, you'll find it under `./resources/clj-kondo.exports/`.
We keep any clj-kondo config containing our local linting preferences, and pertinent to only our internal code, in `.clj-kondo/config.edn`.

This configuration is included in the Etaoin release jar and available when folks reference Etaoin from their `deps.edn` form a `git` dependency.

[NOTE]
====
Etaoin contains a fair number of macros.
Clj-kondo can need special configuration (including hooks) to understand the effects of these macros.
So, when adding any new macros, think also about our Etaoin users and our clj-kondo export configuration.
====
